public/vision-simulator/README.md, before:

# Vision Simulator

A simple web-based simulator for demonstrating how central vision loss affects vision. This simulator creates a blurred area that follows the mouse cursor, simulating conditions like macular degeneration.

## Usage

There are two versions of the simulator:

1. **Full Page Version** (`index.html`): A complete standalone page with explanations.
2. **Embed Version** (`embed.html`): A minimal version designed to be embedded in iframes.

## Embedding in a Blog Post

To embed this simulator in your blog post, use the following iframe code:

```html
<iframe 
  src="/vision-simulator/embed.html" 
  width="100%" 
  height="400" 
  frameborder="0" 
  scrolling="no"
  allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
  allowfullscreen>
</iframe>
```

You can adjust the height as needed to fit your blog layout.

## Features

- Adjustable blur size and intensity
- Four simulation types:
  - Macular Degeneration: Simulates a blurred area in central vision
  - Simple Blur: Basic blurring effect where the cursor is
  - Distortion: Simulates warping and distortion
  - Dark Spot: Simulates a dark spot in central vision

## How it Works

This simulator creates a semi-transparent overlay that follows the user's cursor. This overlay is blurred to simulate how central vision might be affected by conditions like macular degeneration. The surrounding content remains clear, similar to how peripheral vision often remains intact.

## Customization

If you want to customize the text content for your blog post, edit the `embed.html` file. The important elements are:

- The `#content` div contains the text content
- The `#blur-overlay` div creates the blur effect
- The `.controls` div contains the adjustment sliders

Commit message:

Add Retinitis Pigmentosa (RP) simulation mode to vision simulator

public/vision-simulator/README.md, after:

# Vision Simulator

A simple web-based simulator for demonstrating different types of vision loss. This simulator creates visual effects that follow the mouse cursor, allowing users to experience various vision impairments.

## Usage

There are two versions of the simulator:

1. **Full Page Version** (`index.html`): A complete standalone page with explanations.
2. **Embed Version** (`embed.html`): A minimal version designed to be embedded in iframes.

## Embedding in a Blog Post

To embed this simulator in your blog post, use the following iframe code:

```html
<iframe 
  src="/vision-simulator/embed.html" 
  width="100%" 
  height="400" 
  frameborder="0" 
  scrolling="no"
  allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
  allowfullscreen>
</iframe>
```

You can adjust the height as needed to fit your blog layout.

## Features

- Adjustable size and intensity
- Five simulation types:
  - Macular Degeneration: Simulates a blurred area in central vision
  - Retinitis Pigmentosa: Simulates tunnel vision (only able to see around cursor)
  - Simple Blur: Basic blurring effect where the cursor is
  - Distortion: Simulates warping and distortion
  - Dark Spot: Simulates a dark spot in central vision

## How it Works

This simulator uses different visual effects to simulate various vision conditions:

1. **Macular Degeneration**: Creates a semi-transparent overlay that follows the user's cursor and is blurred to simulate how central vision might be affected, while peripheral vision remains intact.

2. **Retinitis Pigmentosa**: The opposite effect of macular degeneration - a dark overlay covers the entire screen, with only a small area around the cursor visible, simulating the "tunnel vision" experienced by people with RP.

3. **Other Effects**: Various combinations of blur, darkness, and distortion to represent different vision conditions.

## Customization

If you want to customize the text content for your blog post, edit the `embed.html` file. The important elements are:

- The `#content` div contains the text content
- The `#blur-overlay` and `#rp-vision` divs create the vision effects
- The `.controls` div contains the adjustment sliders
