src/blog/DoctorStrangeCode.md, before:

---
layout: post.njk
title: Doctor StrangeCode
description: Or How I Learned to Stop Coding and Embrace the Vibes
date: 2023-03-13
tags:
  - post
  - AI
  - writing
  - coding
  - creativity
  - Two-Flat Cats
image: /img/doctor-strange-code.svg
---

# Doctor StrangeCode

### Or: How I Learned to Stop Coding and Embrace the Vibes

## The Writer's Burden

Writing is like bashing your head against a wall because a story burns so deeply in your soul that it _must_ be told. Nobody's there to see it, and feedback is rare. Most people who love your work will never reach out to say, "Hey, this changed me."

So yeah. I'm Sisyphus, rolling my storytelling boulder uphill, forever.

But every so often, you get a lay-up—-something _AI_ can actually help with. Not just organizing drafts, but brainstorming ideas, refining prose, and even acting as an editor that never sleeps.

---

## The Problem

Being a novelist means drowning in revisions, drafts, and organizational chaos. The old-school fix for this was serialization—breaking stories into smaller pieces and sending them out as you write. It's why _The Count of Monte Cristo_ is 1.2 million words long.

But my process? My drafts aren't readable until I've had a chance to revise. That leads to me sending out horrendous filenames like:

> **"my book chapters 1-3 with edits.pdf"**

Gross.

---

## Look to the Past for Solutions

I learned my craft on a dying breed of technology: **the mailing list.**

By the time I joined in 1999, it was already a relic—a once-thriving Web 1.0 project turned quiet hangout for writers. But it was an incredible place to learn. You could cameo your writing idols, then _get feedback from them._

It had a built-in publishing pipeline, too. My first award nod? Came from an editor who liked my work. My first book sale? A member of that list. The advice I pass to new writers today? The old salts hammered it into me back then.

But mailing lists are fraught now. Either they're flooded with spam, or they've been absorbed into corporate SaaS solutions. I've tried sending drafts to friends, but let's be honest—it's a huge ask to say, _"Hey, spend hours reading my book that definitely isn't ready for primetime."_

What I really needed was a direct line to engaged readers. Usually, that would lead me to Substack, but I'm aligned with Cory Doctorow's approach:

> **Give away your work to anyone who wants it. Charge for those willing to pay.**

Unfortunately, most SaaS solutions are built around monetization, gated content, or newsletters—not actual engagement. None of them quite fit my needs.

---

## Screw It, I'll Write My Own

In the past, I'd have just lived with Substack's limitations—or spent months grinding through Next.js tutorials with nothing but Stack Overflow and a prayer. I'm a _decent_ developer, but I wouldn't trust my code out in public. It's sloppy, over-documented, and probably full of security holes I don't even know exist.

But now? The landscape has changed.

Claude 3.7 and its peers have ushered in a new era of coding assistants. Cursor, in particular, is _really_ good at turning plain English instructions into working, useful code—if you have enough technical intuition to guide it.

And instead of screaming into the void for feedback, I have ChatGPT acting as an infinitely patient reviewer, validating my ideas, and (let's be real) feeding my need for affirmation.

Here's how I use it:

---

## Step 1: Use ChatGPT Like a Rubber Duck

[Rubber-duck debugging](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rubber_duck_debugging) is a technique where programmers solve problems by explaining them to an inanimate object. Turns out, it works across disciplines:

- Public speakers rehearse in front of pets.
- Actors picture the audience naked.
- Writers? We rant into the void.

But AI makes for a much better void. It's a brainstorming partner, a sounding board, and—when you're working solo—the only "co-worker" you've got.

---

## Step 2: Paper, Plastic, or Robot? Rapid Prototyping for the Modern Age

{% youtube "1_Z5iir0PMo", "Rapid Prototyping Demo" %}

Since we're **vibe-coding**, we won't waste time slogging through boilerplate. Instead, we focus on the design and flow _first._

Before unleashing something as powerful as Claude 3.7 on an empty codebase, you need a clear vision. Thankfully, that's never been easier.

TikTok has democratized media production. Now, vertical video editing tools like Apple Clips and Google's **Photos Video Editor** let _anyone_ storyboard ideas. The language of film is at your fingertips.

This approach isn't new—high-functioning teams have been doing it forever. I've seen architecture diagrams built in LEGO. Rapid prototyping lets you refine concepts before they turn into full-blown development nightmares.

---

## Step 3: Rapid Feedback—Use the AI Force, Luke

Getting feedback on a project is like pulling teeth. Everyone loves seeing the finished product—few want to watch how the sausage gets made.

AI removes that bottleneck.

Instead of waiting for human feedback, I can:

- Run instant iterations through Cursor
- Push to a dev server
- Have ChatGPT critique the results

Does it hallucinate? Sure, sometimes. But 95% of the time, the feedback is _solid._ If those were blackjack odds, I'd play them all day.

---

## The Result

Behold: a brand-new intake funnel for my latest finished manuscript, _The Two-Flat Cats_!

[https://www.thearcades.me/previews/tfcch1](https://www.thearcades.me/previews/tfcch1)

_(Insert image here)_

Now, the site works _for me_ as a writer:

✔️ **Generates previews** from markdown text automatically  
✔️ **Introduces my work** to friends and family in a structured way  
✔️ **Measures engagement** with a lead metric (beta reader signups)  
✔️ **Prevents IP sprawl**—no more scattered drafts across hell's half-acre

And the best part?

**It took three hours.**

From concept to implementation to refinement. _Hours._

---

## ...How do I do that?
Stay tuned. Over the next few weeks I'm going to break down each step of the above workflow so that anyone, regardless of their coding experience, can reap the benefits of the vibe coding revolution. Click below to join my mailing list, or follow me on [linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/austen-tucker-0968a914/)

## The Future of Vibe-Coding

The biggest shift isn't just how I write _code._ It's how I approach **creating itself.**

By integrating AI into my workflow, I'm:

- More confident tackling ambitious projects.
- More willing to experiment.
- More excited about engaging readers in new ways.

We're at the beginning of a creative renaissance where AI doesn't replace creativity—it **enhances** it. And now? My storytelling boulder still rolls uphill…

But I've got a lot more control over where it goes.

Commit message:

minor edits before dropping on Linkedin

src/blog/DoctorStrangeCode.md, after:

---
layout: post.njk
title: Doctor StrangeCode
description: Or How I Learned to Stop Coding and Embrace the Vibes
date: 2023-03-13
tags:
  - post
  - AI
  - writing
  - coding
  - creativity
  - Two-Flat Cats
image: /img/doctor-strange-code.svg
---

# Doctor StrangeCode

### Or: How I Learned to Stop Coding and Embrace the Vibes

## The Writer's Burden

Writing is like bashing your head against a wall because a story burns so deeply in your soul that it _must_ be told. Nobody's there to see it, and feedback is rare. Most people who love your work will never reach out to say, "Hey, this changed me."

So yeah. I'm Sisyphus, rolling my storytelling boulder uphill, forever.

But every so often, you get a lay-up—something _AI_ can actually help with. Not just organizing drafts, but brainstorming ideas, refining prose, and even acting as an editor that never sleeps.

---

## The Problem

Being a novelist means drowning in revisions, drafts, and organizational chaos. The old-school fix for this was serialization—breaking stories into smaller pieces and sending them out as you write. It's why _The Count of Monte Cristo_ is 1.2 million words long.

But my process? My drafts aren't readable until I've had a chance to revise. That leads to me sending out horrendous filenames like:

> **"my book chapters 1-3 with edits.pdf"**

Gross.

---

## Look to the Past for Solutions

I learned my craft on a dying breed of technology: **the mailing list.**

By the time I joined in 1999, it was already a relic—a once-thriving Web 1.0 project turned quiet hangout for writers. But it was an incredible place to learn. You could cameo your writing idols, then _get feedback from them._

It had a built-in publishing pipeline, too. My first award nod? Came from an editor who liked my work. My first book sale? A member of that list. The advice I pass to new writers today? The old salts hammered it into me back then.

But mailing lists are fraught now. Either they're flooded with spam, or they've been absorbed into corporate SaaS solutions. I've tried sending drafts to friends, but let's be honest—it's a huge ask to say, _"Hey, spend hours reading my book that definitely isn't ready for primetime."_

What I really needed was a direct line to engaged readers. Usually, that would lead me to Substack, but I'm aligned with Cory Doctorow's approach:

> **Give away your work to anyone who wants it. Charge for those willing to pay.**

Unfortunately, most SaaS solutions are built around monetization, gated content, or newsletters—all well and good, but they're all trying to lock me into a platform. Therefore, none of them quite fit my needs.

---

## Screw It, I'll Write My Own

In the past, I'd have just lived with Substack's limitations—or spent months grinding through Next.js tutorials with nothing but Stack Overflow and a prayer. I'm a _decent_ developer, but I wouldn't trust my code out in public. It's sloppy, over-documented, and probably full of security holes I don't even know exist.

But now? The landscape has changed.

Claude 3.7 and its peers have ushered in a new era of coding assistants. Cursor, in particular, is _really_ good at turning plain English instructions into working, useful code—if you have enough technical intuition to guide it.

And instead of screaming into the void for feedback, I have ChatGPT acting as an infinitely patient reviewer, validating my ideas, and (let's be real) feeding my need for affirmation.

Here's how I use it:

---

## Step 1: Use ChatGPT Like a Rubber Duck

[Rubber-duck debugging](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rubber_duck_debugging) is a technique where programmers solve problems by explaining them to an inanimate object. Turns out, it works across disciplines:

- Public speakers rehearse in front of pets.
- Actors picture the audience naked.
- Writers? We rant into the void.

But AI makes for a much better void. It's a brainstorming partner, a sounding board, and—when you're working solo—the only "co-worker" you've got. And if you use some of the more advanced frontier models, you can literally _talk out your coding problems_ with an infinitely patient machine that will never, ever judge you for a dumb question.

I know. It's nuts.

---

## Step 2: Paper, Plastic, or Robot? Rapid Prototyping for the Modern Age

{% youtube "1_Z5iir0PMo", "Rapid Prototyping Demo" %}

Since we're **vibe-coding**, we won't waste time slogging through boilerplate. Instead, we focus on the design and flow _first_, so that we can define our data contract before we get into trouble down the road.

Before unleashing something as powerful as Claude 3.7 on an empty codebase, you need a clear vision. Thankfully, that's never been easier.

TikTok has democratized media production. Now, vertical video editing tools like Apple Clips and Google's **Photos Video Editor** let _anyone_ storyboard ideas. The language of film is at your fingertips.

This approach isn't new—high-functioning teams have been doing it forever. I've seen architecture diagrams built in LEGO. Rapid prototyping lets you refine concepts before they turn into full-blown development nightmares.

---

## Step 3: Rapid Feedback—Use the AI Force, Luke

Getting feedback on a project is like pulling teeth. Everyone loves seeing the finished product—few want to watch how the sausage gets made.

AI removes that bottleneck.

Instead of waiting for human feedback, I can:

- Run instant iterations through Cursor
- Push to a dev server
- Have ChatGPT critique the results

Does it hallucinate? Sure, sometimes. But 95% of the time, the feedback is _solid_. If those were blackjack odds, I'd play them all day.

---

## The Result

Behold: a brand-new intake funnel for my latest finished manuscript, _The Two-Flat Cats_!

[https://www.thearcades.me/previews/tfcch1](https://www.thearcades.me/previews/tfcch1)

Now, the site works _for me_ as a writer:

✔️ **Generates previews** from markdown text automatically  
✔️ **Introduces my work** to friends and family in a structured way  
✔️ **Measures engagement** with a lead metric (beta reader signups)  
✔️ **Prevents IP sprawl**—no more scattered drafts across hell's half-acre

And the best part?

**It took three hours.**

From concept to implementation to refinement. _Hours._

---

## ...How do I do that?

Stay tuned. Over the next few weeks I'm going to break down each step of the above workflow so that anyone, regardless of their coding experience, can reap the benefits of the vibe coding revolution. Click below to join my mailing list, or follow me on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/austen-tucker-0968a914/).

## The Future of Vibe-Coding

The biggest shift isn't just how I write _code_. It's how I approach **creating itself.**

By integrating AI into my workflow, I'm:

- More confident tackling ambitious projects
- More willing to experiment
- More excited about engaging readers in new ways

We're at the beginning of a creative renaissance where AI doesn't replace creativity—it **enhances** it. And now? My storytelling boulder still rolls uphill…

But I've got a lot more control over where it goes.

## Vibe coding is _NOT_ a substitute for knowing how to code!

Let me reframe it for the people in the back:

_You will still need an engineer to drive this thing._

It's a monster, capable of great good but also getting you into trouble if you just trust the AI completely. I'll talk about ways I learned to tame its ambition in future posts, but the central learning I took away from this whole experience is that Vibe Coding is still, well, _coding_. You're still solving the same problems, designing the same patterns and solutions, only this time you don't have to google everything on Stack Overflow first. If you don't have knowledge of common software development patterns this tool will probably not do you any good.

But if you know what you're doing? This is nothing short of a revolution.
